- [Instructor] Our third GitOps principle
focuses on automating deployment of changes
to the runtime state of the system.
To see it in action,
let's deploy the systems desired state into the cluster,
using the Argo CD operator that runs inside of it.
To start out, just click on the settings on the sidebar
and then navigate into the repository section.
From here, you can click on the ellipsis
next to the Git repository
and select create application.
This brings up a form where we can provide more information
about our application we'd like to deploy into the cluster,
the repository holding our desired state
and the cluster itself.
So let's start out by naming our application.
I'm going to call it, GitOps foundations.
You can place the application
within the default project inside of Argo.
Our next option sync policy is important.
It determines whether Argo CD will automatically sync
the runtime state, the cluster,
with the desired state in Git.
We would like that to happen automatically
so go ahead and select that option.
From there, you can scroll down to the source panel.
You'll notice that the URL for our environment repository
within GitHub is automatically populated
for the repository URL.
So that's where our infrastructure code lives.
And you'll recall that we were interested in the Kubernetes
manifest inside of the Argo directory.
So I'm going to go ahead
and specify that as the path,
and that will tell Argo CD what directory to look inside of,
within the repository for our Kubernetes manifests.
Moving on, we can configure our cluster URL
by just selecting the default option
and then we need to provide a namespace
that our application will run within.
The namespace we're going to use is Argo_exercise.
So once you've typed that in,
Argo CD has all the information it needs
to deploy our Kubernetes resources onto the cluster.
To start that process,
just click on the create button
and Argo CD will get to work.
You can see it's pretty fast
and it's already taken the desired state
and applied it onto the cluster.
Now let's take a peek
at one of the Kubernetes resources that was deployed.
Click on this service,
and we can get some more information about that object.
You'll notice inside of this panel that Argo CD
has provided the desired manifest.
This is what was in Git,
and then it has the live manifest.
And this is what's running in the cluster
and what's stored in at CD.
Now I want to call your attention to the desired manifest.
This is specifying how we expose this application.
It's via a service that has a node port of 30,000.
So that's how we'll access the app
and to do that,
we need the IP address of a node in the cluster.
So let's head over to the terminal
and here we're going to use cube CTL
to get a node in the cluster.
I'll specify the dash O flag,
and then I'll say wide.
And once we execute that command,
we can get the IP of the single node inside of our cluster.
So go ahead and copy that
and then inside of a new tab within our browser,
we're going to paste the IP address of the node,
and then we're going to place a colon
and then port 30,000.
And when we hit that URL,
this is going to bring up our application.
So you'll notice that we're running the first version
of our container image,
and you'll recall there's a second version
of that container image.
Let's go ahead
and deploy that second version using a GitOps approach.
Now, remember, according to GitOps principles,
Git is the single source of truth
and we need to drive operations through Git,
and let the automation deploy it.
So that means we're heading over to GitHub.
Within GitHub, we can access the infrastructure code
inside of the environment repository.
So go ahead and click on that
and then navigate into the Argo directory
and here's where we find our Kubernetes manifests.
Click on the manifest for the deployment
and inside of here, you'll notice that the declarative
configuration is pointing to version one dot O
of the container image.
So here's where the change starts with the GitOps workflow.
Now to make this change,
I'm going to directly edit this file within GitHub.
Now in a real world GitOps workflow,
this would always be done through a pull request.
I'm just using a direct commit
to keep up the pace of the course.
So I'll go ahead
and change this over to the second version
of the container image
and then I'm going to commit the changes
and then we'll navigate back to Argo
and wait for those changes to be deployed
across the cluster by the operator.
There we can see the operator begins the sync
and it making what's running in the cluster
match what's in Git.
So it's applying our changes.
There you can see it completed the sync
and if we take a look,
the second version of the container images running,
we head over to the browser to verify that.
So let's navigate to our application
and here I'm going to clear the cache first,
that way we get a good hit on the app.
And then we'll go ahead, hit the URL.
And you'll notice that version 2.0 is up and running,
and that's going to wrap up our demonstration
of automated change deployment,
which is our third GitOps principle.